So this next section is about strings.
Someone asked earlier if
a string was a wrapper class.
It is not, and
it's also not a primitive data type.
So a string is an object,
and it represents a sequence
of characters, right.
The string class actually provides
lots of helpful convenience methods
just like those.
Wrapper classes do so
it does have that in common.
And let's explore some of the common
methods that are available.
We're gonna write a bunch of little
fun programs there and by fun I mean.
These are the types of things that people
give you in coding interviews and stuff.
So not fun.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Get you a job.
>> Yeah, [LAUGH] But
it's a great way that we can see a lot of
the convenience methods that
are available in string.
And see how to think through
some of these things, all right.
So this first one is a word count,
we're gonna write a method that counts
the number of words in a string.
And prints them individually on new lines.
All right, so back in our ID.
Let's go ahead and make a new package.
And this section is on text in general,
not just strings, but
we could just call it strings or whatever.
Am I in the right place?
Yeah, okay, and then let's go ahead and
create a new class.
We'll call this one
TextProcessor All right.
Now we're gonna do a bunch
of these little exercises.
So we'll make a main method.
That'll just call the methods,
and we'll write a method for
each one of these little exercises, okay.
So the first one we're
gonna do is count words.
You can put whatever you want.
I'm gonna put ("I love Java").
And then we'll make that method.
So we'll say public
static void count words.
And this will take a string and
now we want to
do basically some tokenizing of this,
right.
So we can go ahead and
use var words equals.
And with this text, I wanna say dot and
notice all of these helper
methods that I have available.
I can do to lowercase or to uppercase and
all sorts of other things.
What I wanna do is split this text.
And this takes a regular expression,
which I am not good at,
but I know that I wanna split this.
If I'm talking about how
many words are in there,
what would be a good way to split this?
By the space, right.
So let's go ahead and
spli.t it on a blank space.
And that way this should split
this right here I should be one,
love should be one, Java should be one.
Now notice here I use var and
this resolves
to an array of strings
is what it resolves to.
So I'll get three strings there so
in order to know how many elements
are in the array which should I use?
What should I use?
How do I know how many
elements are in this array?
>> Length.
>> Yes length words.length, right.
So we talked about that
in the array chapter.
Where you can see how many elements
are in an array using length.
Definitely keep that in
the back of your head.
I always use length all the time.
It's very popular, all right.
So now I know the number
of words there are and
then the other prompt said to print
them all on a new line, right.
So, I need to first let
them know how many numbers.
So let's do that first,
let's do a print statement and
I wanna use something remember
you may not remember.
But much earlier lesson,
I specified that there were a number of
ways that you could append a variable
in the middle of a string.
So we're gonna use another more kind
of advanced method to do that now.
So I want to use, let's do this.
Let's first declare the message,
I'm gonna say it's a string.
What I want to use is this string.format.
So string.format is a nice
method that will allow me to
essentially add placeholders
within a string.
And then give it the variables
that need to be replaced, okay.
So, I wanna say, and it's just much
cleaner, ("your text contains").
Now, this is where I
would have did a plus,
did the number of words, then another
plus, I need to add the spaces.
So, instead of that I'm
gonna add a placeholder.
In the form of %d, so this format has a
couple of different percent like symbols.
D stands for digit, so this is saying I'm
gonna give you a digit to put right here.
So your text contains %d words.
It's a placeholder.
Now, format then takes however
many more arguments you need to
give it to replace any
placeholders you have.
So we only have one placeholder.
We would just give it that variable,
so number of words.
And the reason you want
to use this is this just
reads really cleanly versus plus sign.
Did I forget the space?
You know what I mean?
So this is like just really clean.
>> Sorry, what exactly is regex?
>> Regular expressions,
Whole nother course.
[LAUGH] All right, okay, so
we formatted our message.
Now we can go ahead and
print that message out.
All right, so
that tells them the number of words but
then we also needed to
print the words themselves.
So we can use a loop, right.
We have an array.
We wanna print everything in the loop.
I mean in everything in the array, we use
a loop, and we could do the enhanced one.
So we said, all right.
For all of the words which is
an array take each one assign it to
a variable that's called word.
And then go ahead and
print that word out, Okay.
And that is our count words.
Let's run it.
So this shows your text contains
three words I love Java.
You if you wanna test this
you can change this to.
However many words you want,
test it out, all right.
So with that,
we looked at the split method,
which is a method on string as an object.
Notice to,
there's a couple of things we did.
So this is a text as a string.
We use the text object to say dot split,
Versus here we use the string class and
say dot format.
Why were we able to do this?
What's the difference here?
Why did one time we use the object, and
the other time we use
the name of the class?
I'll give you a hint.
For the entire day, people have been
asking me, what does this mean?
[LAUGH] Static, right.
All right, so the split method,
notice it didn't ask me for
the text that it needs to
split because it's an object.
It's part of the object.
It has the data already.
So when I said text,
which is an object, dot split,
it already has whatever
the value of this text is.
And it's able to just
do what it needs to do.
Those is format I had to actually give
it a string, and any placeholders.
It has no context of any
data because it is static.
So there are some methods that can be
static, you don't have to have any data.
You don't have to know anything,
there is no world, right.
Just call it versus other methods
like split are not static,
they are part of the object.
So that's what the static part means.